Gavin Chen
In this lab we learned about both how to create and navigate linked lists, and we also explored a bit of 
the implementation of automated sorting. The important piece of the lab was the linked lists 
themselves, and it was interesting to see how linked lists worked and by extension how versatile and 
useful pointers are. It was interesting to see how easy the sorting made counting the words. It made 
error processing much easier and the implementation of code much easier too.

The approach for this lab was the same as most others. A good deal of time was initially spent reading 
the lab manual and getting an idea of what needed to be done, and then the majority of the time was 
spent coding and working on the logic. I began by coding all the functions as well as I could, and then 
focused on debugging them. The lab took approximately 18 hours of work for the whole piece, with the 
majority being spent on debugging. The main issue was with the sorting function. It’s more difficult to 
do the sorting with a linked list as opposed to an array, but the concept behind bubble sorting was 
interesting, however was difficult to grasp using the information provided.

In the end the program worked just as I had hoped. The linked lists piece was relatively straight forward 
save the sorting function, and the sorted word count took some time to understand but was easy once 
understood. If I were to change something about the lab it would have been to shorten it by focusing on 
either solely the linked list or sorting/counting, and to also give more of a breakdown on bubble sorting. 
The example and pseudo code given gave an idea of what bubble sorting was, but it was difficult to see 
how it did what it did. The most difficult part was implementing the code using linked lists instead of 
arrays. In the example it made it didn’t point out the need for manually iterating through the list 
correctly, since in the example iterating through the array is easily done with for loops whereas with 
linked lists there are many more special cases that need to be considered for null cases, as well as 
figuring out how to correctly navigate the list instead of the for loop doing so automatically as with 
arrays. All in all it was an interesting and fun lab, however more information on the sorting concept 
would have made the implementation easier.
